---
title: Homework 6
author: ~
date: '2020-09-23'
slug: homework-6
categories: [homework]
tags: [week06]
draft: no
---

Homework 6 is due Wednesday, Sept 30.

<!--more-->

First, read Healy chapters 1 - 5.

Then, find two published plots: 

* one that you think is unusually effective, and
* one that you think is unusually unsuccessful. 

These can come from the literature, or from the news media, or any source. I think you will learn more if you choose plots that are relevant to your life (i.e., from journals you read, news sources that are important to you, etc). 

For the "good" plot, answer the following questions:

1. Describe the plot. Be sure to describe the data set it came from, the type of plot (scatterplot, line, box-and-whiskers), and any other notable features.
2. What is the plot trying to communicate?
3. Why do you think this plot is successful?
4. Can you think of anything that could make the plot more successful? If not, what is a common plotting error that this plot avoided?

For the "bad" plot, answer the following questions:

1. Describe the plot as you did with the "good" plot.
2. What is the plot trying to communicate?
3. In what way does the plot obscure the meaning of the data, or mislead the reader?
4. What could be done to make the plot easier to read, or more honest?

Then, get together with your group and pick one successful and one unsuccessful plot to present to the whole class. A couple of flexible guidelines:

* The good and the bad plots don't have to come from the same person
* The person who presents the plot should be different from the person who identified the plot
* Two different people should present the plots

This is leading up to the [#badplot](https://twitter.com/drdrewsteen/status/1172547837046820864) competition, due Oct 7, in which you will be asked to make the worst plot possible. Pay attention to the rules^[Guidelines, really. One thing I like about Healy is that he makes clear that there are no hard-and-fast rules for data visualization, just guidelines that typically make plots better or worse.] of good plotting, so that you can break all of them at once for this contest. There will be prizes and, if you're willing, potential internet fame.


